I am from the south side of Chicago and
in seventh grade I had a best friend
named Jenny who lives on the southwest
side of Chicago Jenny was white and if
you know anything about the segregated
demographics of Chicago you know that
there are not too many black people who
live on the southwest side of Chicago
but Jenny was my girl and so we would
hang out every so often after school and
on the weekends so one day we were
hanging out in her living room talking
about thirteen year old things and
Jenny's little sister Rosie was in the
room with us and she was sitting behind
me just kind of playing in my hair and I
wasn't thinking too much about what she
was doing but at a pause in the
conversation Rosie kept me on the
shoulder she said can I ask you a
question
I said yeah Rosie sure are you black the
room froze silence
Jenny and Rosie's mom was not too far
away she's in the kitchen and she
overheard the conversation and she was
mortified
she said well Z you can't ask people
questions like that and Jenny was my
friend and I know she was really
embarrassed I felt kind of bad for her
but actually I was not offended I
figured it wasn't Rosie's fault that in
her 10 short years on this earth living
on the south west side of Chicago she
wasn't a hundred percent sure what a
black person looked like that's fair but
what was more surprising to me was in
all of this time I had spent with Jenny
and Rosie's family hanging out with them
playing with them even physically
interacting with them it was not until
Rosie put her hands in my hair that she
thought to ask me if I was black that
was the first time I would realize how
big of a role the tech
my hair played in confirming my
ethnicity but also that it would play a
key role in how I'm viewed by others in
society here at a Morgan and Madame CJ
Walker were pioneers of the black hair
care and beauty industry in the early
1900's they're best known as the
inventors of chemically based hair
creams and heat straightening tools
designed to permanently or
semi-permanently alter the texture of
black hair oftentimes when we think
about the history of blacks in America
we think about the heinous acts and
numerous and justices that we
experienced as people of color because
of the color of our skin when in fact in
post-civil war America it was the hair
of an African American male or female
that was known as the most telling
feature of Negro status more so than the
color of the skin and so before they
were staples of the multi-billion dollar
hair care industry our dependency on
tools and products like the hair relaxer
and the pressing comb were more about
our survival and advancement as a race
in post slavery America over the years
we grew accustomed to this idea that
straighter and longer hair meant better
and more beautiful we came culturally
obsessed with this idea of having what
we like to call good hair this
essentially means the looser the curl
pattern the better the hair and we let
these institutionalized ideas form a
false sense of hierarchy that would
determine what was considered a good
great affair and what was not what's
worse is that we let these false
ideologies invade our perception of
ourselves and they still continue to
inspect our cultural identity as African
American women
today so what did we do we went to the
hair salon every six to eight weeks
without fail to subject our scalps to
harsh straightening chemicals beginning
at a very young age sometimes eight ten
that would result in hair loss bald
spots sometimes even burns on the scalp
we fry our hair at temperatures of 450
degrees Fahrenheit or higher almost
daily to maintain the straight look or
we simply cover our hair up with wigs
and weaves only to let our roots breathe
in private where no one knows what's
really going on under there we adopted
these practices in our own communities
and so it's no wonder why today the
typical ideal vision of a professional
black woman especially on corporate
America tends to look like this rather
than like this and she certainly doesn't
look like this in September of this year
a federal court ruled it lawful to just
for a company to discriminate against
hiring an employee based on if she or he
wears dreadlocks in the case the hiring
manager in Mobile Alabama is on record
as saying I'm not saying yours are messy
but you know what I'm talking about well
what was she talking about did she think
that they were ugly or maybe they were
just a little too afro centric and
pro-black looking for her taste or maybe
it's not about Afrocentricity and it's
more just about it being a little too
urban for the professional setting
perhaps she had a genuine concern in
that they looked scary and that they
would intimidate the clients and their
customer base all of these words are
ones that are too often associated with
the stigma
attached to natural hairstyles and this
this has got to change in 2013 a white
paper published by the Deloitte Center
for Leadership and inclusion studied
3,000 individuals in executive
leadership roles on the concept of
covering in the workplace based on
appearance advocacy affiliation and
Association when thinking about
appearance based covering the study
showed that 67% of women of color cover
in the workplace based on their
appearance of the total respondents who
admitted to a parent space covering 82%
said that it was somewhat - extremely
important for them to do so for their
professional advancement now this is
Ursula burns she is the first African
American female CEO of a fortune 500
company of Xerox she's known by her
signature look the one that you see here
a short nicely trimmed well manicured
afro miss burns is what we like to call
a natural girl and she is paving the way
and showing what's possible for African
American women seeking to climb the
corporate ladder but still wish to wear
natural hairstyles but today is a
majority of african-american women who
we still look to as leaders icons and
role models still opt for a straight
hair look now maybe it's because they
want to this is authentically how they
feel best but maybe and I bet that a
part of them felt like they had to in
order to reach the level of success that
they have attained today there is a
natural hair movement that's sweeping
the country and also in some places in
Europe millions of women are exploring
what it means to transition to natural
hair and they're cutting off years and
years of dry damaged ends
in order to restore their natural curl
pattern I know because I have been an
advocate and an ambassador for this
movement for roughly the last three
years after 27 years of excessive heat
and harsh chemicals my hair was
beginning to show extreme signs of wear
and tear it was breaking off it was
thinning looking just extremely dry and
brittle all those years of chasing that
conventional image of beauty that we saw
earlier was finally beginning to take
its toll I wanted to do something about
it and so I started what I call the no
heat challenge where I would refrain
from using heat styling tools on my hair
for six months and like a good
millennial I documented it on social
media I documented as I reluctantly cut
off three to four inches of my beloved
hair I documented as I struggled to
master these natural hairstyles and also
as I struggled to embrace them and think
that they actually looked good and I
deca meant it as my hair Tex texture
slowly began to change by sharing this
journey openly I learned that I was not
the only woman going through this and
then in fact there were thousands and
thousands of other women who are longing
to do the same so they would reach out
to me and they would say Cheyenne how
did you do that natural hair style that
I thought you was the other day what new
products have you started using that
might be a little better for my hair
texture as it begins to change or what
are some of the natural hair routines
that I should begin to adopt to slowly
restore the health of my hair but I also
found that there were a large number of
women who were extremely hesitant to
take that first step because they were
paralyzed by fear fear of the unknown
what would they now
like how would they feel about
themselves with these natural hairstyles
and most importantly to them how would
others view them over the last three
years of having numerous conversations
with friends of mine and also complete
strangers from around the world I
learned some really important things
about how african-american women
identify with their hair and so when I
think back to that hiring manager in
Mobile Alabama
I'd say actually no we don't know what
you're talking about but here are some
things that we do know we know that when
black women embrace their love for their
natural hair it helps to undo
generations of teaching that black and
it's natural state is not beautiful or
something to be hidden or covered up we
know that black women express their
individuality and experience feelings of
empowerment by experimenting with
different hair styles regularly and we
also know that when we are invited to
wear our natural hair in the workplace
it reinforces that we are uniquely
valued and thus helps us to flourish in
advance professionally I leave you with
this in a time of racial and social
tensions embracing this movement and
others like this help us to rise above
the confines of the status quo so when
you see a woman with braids or locs
draping down her back or you notice your
colleague who have stopped straightening
her hair to work do not simply approach
her and admire and ask her if you can
touch it
really appreciate her applaud her heck
even high-five her if that's what you
feel so inclined to do because this this
is more than about a hairstyle it's
about self love and self worth
it's about being brave enough not to
fold under the pressure of others
expectations and about knowing that
making the decision to stray from the
norm does not define who we are but it
simply reveals who we are and finally
being brave is easier when we can count
on the compassion of others so after
today I certainly hope that we can count
on you thank you
[Applause]